index.md, before:


## Welcome to the online documentation

* FoodCoopShop on Github: [https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop)
* Demo versions in [German](https://demo-de.foodcoopshop.com) and [English](https://demo-en.foodcoopshop.com)
* Official homepage: [https://www.foodcoopshop.com](https://www.foodcoopshop.com/) (German)

## Installation and updates

* If you want to host FoodCoopShop by yourself, please read the [installation details]({{ site.baseurl }}/en/installation-details).
* If you want to update your installation, please read the [migration guide]({{ site.baseurl }}/en/migration-guide).
* What's new in the latest version? [View the changelog]({{{site.repo_url}}/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) (German).

## Supported languages

* The software and its documentation are available in [German]({{ site.baseurl }}/de/) and [English]({{ site.baseurl }}/en/). 
* If you want to translate it into your language, please read the [documentation for translating]({{ site.baseurl }}/en/translating).

## Who uses FoodCoopShop?

* [https://foodcoopshop.github.io/en/foodcoops]({{ site.baseurl }}/en/foodcoops)

## Stability

* Currently (March 2019) there are [297 automated unit tests and 1.499 assertions](https://travis-ci.org/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/builds) that keep the software stable.

Commit message:

new layout just-the-docs (#3)
* changed theme to just-the-docs

* remove

* nav

* nav

* nav

* nav

* toc

* nav

* nav

* naming

* For developers

* github link

* logo

* title

* favicon

* logo

* exclude

* img

* title

* fcs green

* settings

* color

* title

* wording

* foodcoops

index.md, after:

---
title: Software documentation
nav_exclude: true
---

![]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/foodcoopshop-logo.png)

## Welcome to the software documentation

* FoodCoopShop on Github: [https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop)
* Demo versions in [German](https://demo-de.foodcoopshop.com) and [English](https://demo-en.foodcoopshop.com)
* Official homepage: [https://www.foodcoopshop.com](https://www.foodcoopshop.com/) (German)

## Installation and updates

* If you want to host FoodCoopShop by yourself, please read the [installation details]({{ site.baseurl }}/en/installation-details).
* If you want to update your installation, please read the [migration guide]({{ site.baseurl }}/en/migration-guide).
* What's new in the latest version? [View the changelog]({{{site.repo_url}}/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) (German).

## Supported languages

* The software and its documentation are available in [German]({{ site.baseurl }}/de/) and [English]({{ site.baseurl }}/en/). 
* If you want to translate it into your language, please read the [documentation for translating]({{ site.baseurl }}/en/translating).

## Who uses FoodCoopShop?

* [https://foodcoopshop.github.io/en/foodcoops]({{ site.baseurl }}/en/foodcoops)

## Stability

* Currently (March 2019) there are [297 automated unit tests and 1.499 assertions](https://travis-ci.org/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/builds) that keep the software stable.
