docs/dev/installation-guide.md, before:

# Installation guide

:::info
* This installation guide always references to the [latest stable version](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/releases).
* If you want to update your installation to another version, read the [migration guide](/dev/migration-guide).
* You can help making this open source project more visible on GitHub by starring ⭐ it.
:::

## Requirements
* Server with **shell access** and **cronjobs**
* [Webserver - Nginx or Apache](/dev/webserver-configuration)
* PHP => 8.2
* PHP intl extension INTL_ICU_VERSION >= 50.1
* PHP Imagick and GD extension
* PHP mbstring and curl
* PHP bzip2 lib (for automatic database backups) (prior to v3.6: PHP ZipArchive class)
* MySQL >= 8.0

:::info
* There is an offer for [paid support and hosting](https://www.foodcoopshop.com/das-angebot/) if you don't want to spend your time on IT stuff.
* There are demo installations in [German](https://demo-de.foodcoopshop.com/), [English](https://demo-en.foodcoopshop.com/) and [Russian](https://demo-ru.foodcoopshop.com). Feel free to test before installing.
:::

* * *

## [Setting up your dev environment with Docker](/dev/docker-dev-environment)


## Installing the latest stable version for your live server
* Download the latest stable version at [https://www.foodcoopshop.com/download](https://www.foodcoopshop.com/download) and upload the unpacked files to your server using FTP.
* [Webserver configuration](/dev/webserver-configuration)

## Setting permissions
```bash
bash ./devtools/installation/set-permissions.sh
```

* * *

## Configuration
* Copy [custom_config.default.php](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/blob/main/config/custom_config.default.php) to custom_config.php and add your configuration overrides.
* The default configuration is found in [app_config.php](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/blob/main/config/app_config.php).
* Set `App.fullBaseUrl` to your server, e.g. "https://yourdomain.tld" - NO TRAILING SLASH!


* Some configuration is stored in the database and can easily be changed from the admin area: https://yourdomain.tld/admin/configurations (Super Admin account required)
* [More infos](/dev/configuration)

## Database Setup
* Create a new database (e.g. foodcoopshop_db)
* Define your database configuration in custom_config.php

:::important
* run `bash ./devtools/installation/init-database.sh de_DE` (locales "en_US" and "ru_RU" are also supported)
* Import taxes for Austria: `bash ./bin/cake migrations seed --seed AddTaxesAustriaSeed`
* **OR** Import taxes for Germany: `bash ./bin/cake migrations seed --seed AddTaxesGermanySeed`
:::

## Credentials
* Copy [credentials.default.php](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/blob/main/config/credentials.default.php) to credentials.php and change the configuration
* The email error logging can be enabled to ease server monitoring
* **Be aware** that you need to set `'EmailTransport' => [...]` twice, once in `credentials.php` and once in `custom_config.php`. There must be an EmailTransport config-block for the keys "default" and "debug" so the configs must not stay commented!
* See [https://book.cakephp.org/4/en/core-libraries/email.html#configuring-transports](https://book.cakephp.org/4/en/core-libraries/email.html#configuring-transports)

## Setting up cronjobs
Follow the steps of the [cronjob documentation](/dev/cronjobs).

## Testing your email configuration
* Once you created a Super Admin account (instructions further down), You can test your email configuration by accessing https://yourdomain.tld/admin/configurations/sendTestEmail in your browser.
* As all emails are sent via the queue, be sure that you set it up correctly. See [cronjob documentation](/dev/cronjobs).

## Setup security keys
Open your domain https://yourdomain.tld in a browser and follow the steps shown to create secure values for the security salt ```Security.salt```. Set it in custom_config.php

## Create the valid Super Admin account
* Open https://yourdomain.tld/sign-in in your browser and register with your personal email address (down below at "Create account")
* After the successful registration go to your database (e.g. using Adminer or phpMyAdmin) and open the table "fcs_customer". There is one record (with your email address). Change the field "id_default_group" from 3 to 5 and  the field "active" from 0 to 1.
* Open https://yourdomain.tld/request-new-password, type in your email address and press "Send".
* With the password that was sent to you by email you are able to login as a Super Admin.

:::info
The urls in this section depend on the locale of your installation and therefore may be different for you. The urls are constructed from translatio -settings which can be found in the "/resources/locale/country_CULTURE/default.po" file under the keys "route_sign_in" and "route_request_new_password". Example for "de_DE":
* Sign-in: https://yourdomain.tld/anmelden
* Request-new-password: https://yourdomain.tld/neues-passwort-anfordern
:::

## Customizing CSS
* Change app.debug to `true` in your custom_config.php so that the assets (css and js) are loaded from the actual files in /css and /js (and not from /cache).
* To re-build the assets in /cache for production, run `composer build`

:::info
If you downloaded the package with installed vendors from foodcoopshop.com/download, you get a "Missing Plugin DebugKit" exception when you turn app.debug to true. If you can't install composer on your server, download the package from https://github.com/cakephp/debug_kit and copy it into the plugins folder. [More Details](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/issues/931).
:::

:::info
Good luck and thank you for using FoodCoopShop!
:::

## If you have questions, first check existing github support issues
* [I#519](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/issues/519), [I#509](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/issues/509), [I#466](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/issues/466)
* If you still have questions, [create a new issue](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/issues/new).

Commit message:

Added a dedicated section with link and description for docker prod setup in new repo

docs/dev/installation-guide.md, after:

# Installation guide

:::info
* This installation guide always references to the [latest stable version](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/releases).
* If you want to update your installation to another version, read the [migration guide](/dev/migration-guide).
* You can help making this open source project more visible on GitHub by starring ⭐ it.
:::

## Requirements
* Server with **shell access** and **cronjobs**
* [Webserver - Nginx or Apache](/dev/webserver-configuration)
* PHP => 8.2
* PHP intl extension INTL_ICU_VERSION >= 50.1
* PHP Imagick and GD extension
* PHP mbstring and curl
* PHP bzip2 lib (for automatic database backups) (prior to v3.6: PHP ZipArchive class)
* MySQL >= 8.0

:::info
* There is an offer for [paid support and hosting](https://www.foodcoopshop.com/das-angebot/) if you don't want to spend your time on IT stuff.
* There are demo installations in [German](https://demo-de.foodcoopshop.com/), [English](https://demo-en.foodcoopshop.com/) and [Russian](https://demo-ru.foodcoopshop.com). Feel free to test before installing.
:::

* * *

## [Setting up your dev environment with Docker](/dev/docker-dev-environment)

## Using Docker for your production setup
When you want to use Docker for your production instance take a look at the [prod ready setup](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop-docker) and follow its manual. This also relieves you from a few of the following steps.

## Installing the latest stable version for your live server
* Download the latest stable version at [https://www.foodcoopshop.com/download](https://www.foodcoopshop.com/download) and upload the unpacked files to your server using FTP.
* [Webserver configuration](/dev/webserver-configuration)

## Setting permissions
```bash
bash ./devtools/installation/set-permissions.sh
```

* * *

## Configuration
* Copy [custom_config.default.php](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/blob/main/config/custom_config.default.php) to custom_config.php and add your configuration overrides.
* The default configuration is found in [app_config.php](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/blob/main/config/app_config.php).
* Set `App.fullBaseUrl` to your server, e.g. "https://yourdomain.tld" - NO TRAILING SLASH!


* Some configuration is stored in the database and can easily be changed from the admin area: https://yourdomain.tld/admin/configurations (Super Admin account required)
* [More infos](/dev/configuration)

## Database Setup
* Create a new database (e.g. foodcoopshop_db)
* Define your database configuration in custom_config.php

:::important
* run `bash ./devtools/installation/init-database.sh de_DE` (locales "en_US" and "ru_RU" are also supported)
* Import taxes for Austria: `bash ./bin/cake migrations seed --seed AddTaxesAustriaSeed`
* **OR** Import taxes for Germany: `bash ./bin/cake migrations seed --seed AddTaxesGermanySeed`
:::

## Credentials
* Copy [credentials.default.php](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/blob/main/config/credentials.default.php) to credentials.php and change the configuration
* The email error logging can be enabled to ease server monitoring
* **Be aware** that you need to set `'EmailTransport' => [...]` twice, once in `credentials.php` and once in `custom_config.php`. There must be an EmailTransport config-block for the keys "default" and "debug" so the configs must not stay commented!
* See [https://book.cakephp.org/4/en/core-libraries/email.html#configuring-transports](https://book.cakephp.org/4/en/core-libraries/email.html#configuring-transports)

## Setting up cronjobs
Follow the steps of the [cronjob documentation](/dev/cronjobs).

## Testing your email configuration
* Once you created a Super Admin account (instructions further down), You can test your email configuration by accessing https://yourdomain.tld/admin/configurations/sendTestEmail in your browser.
* As all emails are sent via the queue, be sure that you set it up correctly. See [cronjob documentation](/dev/cronjobs).

## Setup security keys
Open your domain https://yourdomain.tld in a browser and follow the steps shown to create secure values for the security salt ```Security.salt```. Set it in custom_config.php

## Create the valid Super Admin account
* Open https://yourdomain.tld/sign-in in your browser and register with your personal email address (down below at "Create account")
* After the successful registration go to your database (e.g. using Adminer or phpMyAdmin) and open the table "fcs_customer". There is one record (with your email address). Change the field "id_default_group" from 3 to 5 and  the field "active" from 0 to 1.
* Open https://yourdomain.tld/request-new-password, type in your email address and press "Send".
* With the password that was sent to you by email you are able to login as a Super Admin.

:::info
The urls in this section depend on the locale of your installation and therefore may be different for you. The urls are constructed from translatio -settings which can be found in the "/resources/locale/country_CULTURE/default.po" file under the keys "route_sign_in" and "route_request_new_password". Example for "de_DE":
* Sign-in: https://yourdomain.tld/anmelden
* Request-new-password: https://yourdomain.tld/neues-passwort-anfordern
:::

## Customizing CSS
* Change app.debug to `true` in your custom_config.php so that the assets (css and js) are loaded from the actual files in /css and /js (and not from /cache).
* To re-build the assets in /cache for production, run `composer build`

:::info
If you downloaded the package with installed vendors from foodcoopshop.com/download, you get a "Missing Plugin DebugKit" exception when you turn app.debug to true. If you can't install composer on your server, download the package from https://github.com/cakephp/debug_kit and copy it into the plugins folder. [More Details](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/issues/931).
:::

:::info
Good luck and thank you for using FoodCoopShop!
:::

## If you have questions, first check existing github support issues
* [I#519](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/issues/519), [I#509](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/issues/509), [I#466](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/issues/466)
* If you still have questions, [create a new issue](https://github.com/foodcoopshop/foodcoopshop/issues/new).
